.TH PEAQ 1 2013-01-31 GstPEAQ
.SH NAME
peaq \- Perceptual Evaluation of Audio Quality
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY peaq
.RI [ --basic ]
.RI [ --advanced ]
.RI [ "GSTREAMER OPTIONS" ]
.I REFFILE 
.I TESTFILE
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B peaq
evaluates the audio quality of an impaired
.I TESTFILE
with reference to the original
.IR REFFILE .
The output consists of the Objective Difference Grade (ODG) and the Distortion
Index (DI).
The ODG approximates the result of a listening test with a five-grade
impairment scale, where the possible values are anchored according to:
.TS
tab (@);
r lx.
ODG@T{
judgement of impairment
T}
0@T{
imperceptible
T}
-1@T{
perceptible but not annoying
T}
-2@T{
slightly annoying
T}
-3@T{
annoying
T}
-4@T{
very annoying
T}
.TE
.P
The calculation of the ODG is performed as described in ITU-R BS.1387-1 and
interpreted by Peter Kabal in "An Examination and Interpretation of ITU-R
BS.1387: Perceptual Evaluation of Audio Quality".
Both the basic and the advanced version of the PEAQ algorithm are available.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --basic
Use basic version of the PEAQ algorithm.
.TP
.B --advanced
Use advanced version of the PEAQ algorithm.
.P
In addition to these application specific options,
.B peaq
supports the common GStreamer options as described e.g. in
.BR gst-lauch (1).
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Command completed successfully.
.TP
.B 1
Usage or syntax error.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
See
.BR gst-lauch (1)
for a list of environment variables affecting all GStreamer applications.
.SH CONFORMING TO
Although
.B peaq
is implemented based on ITU-R BS.1387-1, it does not fulfill the conformance
criteria therein.
